# Tut Sheet 5

### Solutions @AyushR1

### Q1. Initialize a variable ‘a’ to the value 4.

```

a = 4;
```

### Q2. Initialize another variable ‘b’ to 5. Calculate the value of a/b and store the result in another variable.

```
b = 5;
result = a / b;

```

### Q3. Calculate the value of the tangent of ‘a’ and store the result in a variable.

```

result = tan(a);

```

### Q4. Calculate the value of cosecant of ‘a’ without storing the result in a variable. How does MATLAB handle such cases?

```

csc(a);

```

The above command will output the value of cosecant of 'a' to the command window, but will not store it in a variable. If we don’t assign the output to any variable, the output will be lost.

### Q5. How can you suppress outputs in a command window? Is the workspace affected by suppressing outputs on a command window?

You can suppress outputs in the command window by adding a semicolon at the end of the command. For example, **`a = 4;`** instead of **`a = 4`**. The workspace will not be affected by suppressing outputs on the command window.

### Q6. How can you access historical commands in MATLAB?

You can use the up arrow key to access previous commands and the down arrow key to access subsequent commands.

### Q7. Create an array ‘a’ with 5 integer elements. What delimiters can be used to create a row vector? Are the same delimiters applicable to create a column vector?

```

a = [1 2 3 4 5];

```

We use square brackets [] to create a row vector and semicolon to create a column vector. **`a = [1; 2; 3; 4; 5]`**

### Q8. Create a two-dimensional matrix with 4 rows and 4 columns.

```

a = ones(4, 4);

```

### **Q9. Create a null matrix with 7 rows and 3 columns.**

```
a = zeros(7, 3);

```

### Q10. Perform element wise division of matrix ‘a’ with the number 32.

```
a = a / 32;

```

### Q11. Calculate cos of all elements of matrix ‘a’

```

a = cos(a);

```

### Q12. Transpose the matrix ‘a’.

```
a = a';

```

### Q13. Create another matrix ‘b’ of appropriate size and calculate its product with matrix ‘a’. The multiplication should be of row-column type.

```

b = a'
result = a * b;

```

### 

### Q14. How to alter the number of values visible after the decimal point?
You can use the function **`format`** to set the number of decimal places that MATLAB should display

In MATLAB, the **`format`** function is used to control the display of numeric values in the command window. The **`format short`** command sets the number of decimal places displayed to 4. Similarly, **`format long`** command sets the number of decimal places to be displayed to 15.

For example, to display only 4 decimal places, you can use the following command:

```
Copy code
format short;

```

This will cause all floating-point numbers to be displayed with 4 decimal places in the command window, but this does not change the actual value of the variable.

You can also change the number of decimal places to any specific number using **`format short e`**, for example,

```
Copy code
format short e;

```

This will display all floating-point numbers in scientific notation using 4 decimal places.

You can also use the **`format bank`** command which will round the decimal values to 2 decimal places

```
Copy code
format bank

```

This way, you can control how many decimal places are visible in the command window and make the output more readable and less cluttered.

Keep in mind that this will only affect the display of the values and not the actual values stored in the variables.

```

```

Q15. Create another matrix ‘c’ of appropriate size and calculate the product with matrix ‘a’. The multiplication should be element wise.

```
c = rand(size(a, 1), size(a, 2));
result = a .* c;

```

[https://in.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/times.html](https://in.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/times.html)

### Q16. Calculate the fifth power for matrix 'a'.

```
result = a.^5;

```

Note the use of **`.^`** operator for element-wise matrix power operation.
You should also test the dimensions of matrix 'a' and 'c' before performing the operations to make sure it's compatible with the matrix operation you want to perform.

Please let me know if you need further help or explanations on any of the above commands or MATLAB operations